.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "DSTAT" "1" "09/11/2008" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
dstat \- versatile tool for generating system resource statistics
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
dstat [\-afv] [options..] [delay [count]]
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Dstat is a versatile replacement for vmstat, iostat and ifstat. Dstat overcomes some of the limitations and adds some extra features.
.sp
Dstat allows you to view all of your system resources instantly, you can eg. compare disk usage in combination with interrupts from your IDE controller, or compare the network bandwidth numbers directly with the disk throughput (in the same interval).
.sp
Dstat also cleverly gives you the most detailed information in columns and clearly indicates in what magnitude and unit the output is displayed. Less confusion, less mistakes, more efficient.
.sp
Dstat is unique in letting you aggregate block device throughput for a certain diskset or network bandwidth for a group of interfaces, ie. you can see the throughput for all the block devices that make up a single filesystem or storage system.
.sp
Dstat allows its data to be directly written to a CSV file to be imported and used by OpenOffice, Gnumeric or Excel to create graphs.
.sp
.sp
.it 1 an-trap
.nr an-no-space-flag 1
.nr an-break-flag 1
.br
\fBNote\fR
Users of Sleuthkit might find Sleuthkit's dstat being renamed to datastat to avoid a name conflict. See Debian bug #283709 for more information.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-c, \-\-cpu
enable cpu stats
.TP
\-C 0,3,total
include cpu0, cpu3 and total
.TP
\-d, \-\-disk
enable disk stats
.TP
\-D total,hda
include hda and total
.TP
\-g, \-\-page
enable page stats
.TP
\-i, \-\-int
enable interrupt stats
.TP
\-I 5,10
include interrupt 5 and 10
.TP
\-l, \-\-load
enable load stats
.TP
\-m, \-\-mem
enable memory stats
.TP
\-n, \-\-net
enable network stats
.TP
\-N eth1,total
include eth1 and total
.TP
\-p, \-\-proc
enable process stats
.TP
\-s, \-\-swap
enable swap stats
.TP
\-S swap1,total
include swap1 and total
.TP
\-t, \-\-time
enable time/date output
.TP
\-T, \-\-epoch
enable time counter (seconds since epoch)
.TP
\-y, \-\-sys
enable system stats
.TP
\-\-ipc
enable ipc stats
.TP
\-\-lock
enable lock stats
.TP
\-\-raw
enable raw stats
.TP
\-\-tcp
enable tcp stats
.TP
\-\-udp
enable udp stats
.TP
\-\-unix
enable unix stats
.TP
\-M stat1,stat2
enable internal stats and external plugin stats
.TP
Possible internal stats are
cpu, cpu24, disk, disk24, disk24old, epoch, int, int24, ipc, load, lock, mem, net, page, page24, proc, raw, swap, swapold, sys, tcp, time, udp, unix
.TP
Possible external plugin stats can be listed using
dstat \-M list
.TP
\-a, \-\-all
equals \-cdngy (default)
.TP
\-f, \-\-full
expand \-C, \-D, \-I, \-N and \-S discovery lists
.TP
\-v, \-\-vmstat
equals \-pmgdsc \-D total
.TP
\-\-integer
show integer values
.TP
\-\-nocolor
disable colors (implies \-\-noupdate)
.TP
\-\-noheaders
disable repetitive headers
.TP
\-\-noupdate
disable intermediate updates when delay > 1
.TP
\-\-output file
write CSV output to file
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
\fBdelay\fR is the delay in seconds between each update
.sp
\fBcount\fR is the number of updates to display before exiting
.sp
The default delay is 1 and count is unspecified (unlimited)
.sp
.SH "INTERMEDIATE UPDATES"
When invoking dstat with a \fBdelay\fR greater than 1 and without the \fB\-\-noupdate\fR option, it will show intermediate updates, ie. the first time a 1 sec average, the second update a 2 second average, etc. until the delay has been reached.
.sp
So in case you specified a delay of 10, \fBthe 9 intermediate updates are NOT snapshots\fR, they are averages over the time that passed since the last final update. The end result is that you get a 10 second average on a new line, just like with vmstat.
.sp
.SH "USAGE"
Using dstat to relate disk\-throughput with network\-usage (eth0), total CPU\-usage and system counters:
.sp
.sp
.nf
dstat \-dnyc \-N eth0 \-C total \-f 5
.fi
Checking dstat's behaviour and the system's impact on dstat:
.sp
.sp
.nf
dstat \-taf \-\-debug
.fi
Using the time plugin together with cpu, net, disk, system, load, proc and topcpu plugins:
.sp
.sp
.nf
dstat \-tcndylp \-M topcpu
.fi
this is identical to
.sp
.sp
.nf
dstat \-M time,cpu,net,disk,sys,load,proc,topcpu
.fi
Using dstat to relate cpu stats with interrupts per device:
.sp
.sp
.nf
dstat \-tcyif
.fi
.SH "BUGS"
Since it is practically impossible to test dstat on every possible permutation of kernel, python or distribution version, I need your help and your feedback to fix the remaining problems. If you have improvements or bugreports, please send them to: [1]\&\fIdag@wieers.com\fR
.sp
.sp
.it 1 an-trap
.nr an-no-space-flag 1
.nr an-break-flag 1
.br
\fBNote\fR
Please see the TODO file for known bugs and future plans.
.sp
.SH "FILES"
Paths that may contain external dstat_* plugins:
.sp
.sp
.nf
~/.dstat/
./
./plugins/
(path of binary)/plugins/
/usr/share/dstat/
/usr/local/share/dstat/
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SS "Performance tools"
.sp
.nf
ifstat(1), iftop(8), iostat(1), mpstat(1), netstat(1), nfsstat(1), nstat, vmstat(1), xosview(1)
.fi
.SS "Debugging tools"
.sp
.nf
htop(1), lslk(1), lsof(8), top(1)
.fi
.SS "Process tracing"
.sp
.nf
ltrace(1), pmap(1), ps(1), pstack(1), strace(1)
.fi
.SS "Binary debugging"
.sp
.nf
ldd(1), file(1), nm(1), objdump(1), readelf(1)
.fi
.SS "Memory usage tools"
.sp
.nf
free(1), memusage, memusagestat, slabtop(1)
.fi
.SS "Accounting tools"
.sp
.nf
dump\-acct, dump\-utmp, sa(8)
.fi
.SS "Hardware debugging tools"
.sp
.nf
dmidecode, ifinfo(1), lsdev(1), lshal(1), lshw(1), lsmod(8), lspci(8), lsusb(8), smartctl(8), x86info(1)
.fi
.SS "Application debugging"
.sp
.nf
mailstats(8), qshape(1)
.fi
.SS "Xorg related tools"
.sp
.nf
xdpyinfo(1), xrestop(1)
.fi
.SS "Other useful info"
.sp
.nf
proc(5)
.fi
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Dag Wieers [1]\&\fIdag@wieers.com\fR
.sp
Homepage at [2]\&\fIhttp://dag.wieers.com/home\-made/dstat/\fR
.sp
This manpage was initially written by Andrew Pollock [3]\&\fIapollock@debian.org\fR for the Debian GNU/Linux system, and updated by Dag Wieers [1]\&\fIdag@wieers.com\fR
.sp
.SH "REFERENCES"
.TP 3
1.\ dag@wieers.com
\%mailto:dag@wieers.com
.TP 3
2.\ http://dag.wieers.com/home\-made/dstat/
\%http://dag.wieers.com/home\-made/dstat/
.TP 3
3.\ apollock@debian.org
\%mailto:apollock@debian.org
